PS-8606 5.7.41-44 Release notes and release note tasks (5.7) (#102)
percona/psmysql-docs: docs/release-notes/5.7.41-44.md

# Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.41-44 (2023-)

<style>1
    table {
        width=50%';
        font-family: Chivo, Colfax, Franziska, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;
    }
    table td {
        border: 0px;
        padding: 8px;
    }
    tr:nth-child(even){
        background-color:#f5f5f5
    }
    tr:hover {
        background-color: #dddd;
    }
</style>

| Release date | 2023 |
|---|---|
| Install instructions | [Install Percona Server for MySQL](https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server/5.7/installation.html) |
| Download this version | [Percona Server for MySQL](https://www.percona.com/downloads/Percona-Server-5.7/LATEST/)

[Percona Server for MySQL](https://www.percona.com/software/mysql-database/percona-server) 5.7.41-44
includes all the features and bug fixes available in [MySQL 5.7.41 Community Edition](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/5.7/en/news-5-7-41.html) in addition to enterprise-grade features developed by Percona.

> *Percona Server for MySQL* is a free, fully compatible, enhanced, and open

Reviewer: Remove ** in product names

Author: Done.

source drop-in replacement for any *MySQL* database. It provides superior
performance, scalability, and instrumentation.

*Percona Server for MySQL* is trusted by thousands of enterprises to provide
better performance and concurrency for their most demanding workloads. It
delivers more value to *MySQL* server users with optimized performance,
greater performance scalability and availability, enhanced backups, and

> increased visibility.

Reviewer: Remove ** in product names

For paid [support](https://www.percona.com/services/support), [managed services](https://www.percona.com/services/managed-services) or [consulting services](https://www.percona.com/services/consulting), contact [Percona Sales](https://www.percona.com/about-percona/contact)

For [training](https://www.percona.com/training), contact [Percona Training - Start learning now](https://learn.percona.com/contact-me)

## Release highlights

Improvements and bug fixes provided by Oracle for *MySQL* 5.7.41 and included in Percona Server for MySQL are the following:

* Updated the linked OpenSSL library for MySQL Server to 1.1.s
  
* Updated the bundled zlib library to zlib 1.2.13. This zlib library version is the minimum supported.

* While the SQL thread handled a transaction, issuing `STOP_SLAVE_SQL_THREAD` caused replication to stop immediately instead of waiting for the event group to complete before the shutdown.
  

> * When the `--single-transaction` and `--set-gtid-purged=ON` options were both used the mysqldump backup of the data and GTIDs were inconsistent. Now at the beginning of the dump, a `FLUSH_TABLES_WITH_READ_LOCK` and `GTID_EXECUTED` are performed. These operations ensure that the GTID value is consistent with the mysqldump snapshot. 

Reviewer: Add a comma after "options were both used"

Author: added.

> Find the full list of bug fixes and changes in the [MySQL 5.7.40 Release Notes](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/5.7/en/news-5-7-41.html).

Reviewer: [MySQL 5.7.40 Release Notes] -> [MySQL 5.7.41 Release Notes]

Author: Done.

> There are no bug fixes for this version.

Reviewer: We have one bug fix - https://jira.percona.com/browse/PS-7538

Author: Added.

> # Percona Server for MySQL 5.7.41-44 (2023-03-01)

Reviewer: Change the date (2023-03-01) -> (2023-03-02)

Reviewer: updated

source drop-in replacement for any MySQL database. It provides superior
performance, scalability, and instrumentation.

Percona Server for MySQL is trusted by thousands of enterprises to provide
better performance and concurrency for their most demanding workloads. It
delivers more value to MySQL server users with optimized performance,
greater performance scalability and availability, enhanced backups, and
increased visibility.

For paid [support](https://www.percona.com/services/support), [managed services](https://www.percona.com/services/managed-services) or [consulting services](https://www.percona.com/services/consulting), contact [Percona Sales](https://www.percona.com/about-percona/contact)

For [training](https://www.percona.com/training), contact [Percona Training - Start learning now](https://learn.percona.com/contact-me)

## Release highlights

Improvements and bug fixes provided by Oracle for MySQL 5.7.41 and included in Percona Server for MySQL are the following:

* Updated the linked OpenSSL library for MySQL Server to 1.1.s
  
* Updated the bundled zlib library to zlib 1.2.13. This zlib library version is the minimum supported.

> * While the SQL thread handled a transaction, issuing `STOP_SLAVE_SQL_THREAD` caused replication to stop immediately instead of waiting for the event group to complete before the shutdown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* While the SQL thread handled a transaction, issuing `STOP SLAVE SQL_THREAD` caused replication to stop immediately instead of waiting for the event group to complete before the shutdown.
```

Author: Updated.

> * When the `--single-transaction` and `--set-gtid-purged=ON` options were both used, the mysqldump backup of the data and GTIDs were inconsistent. Now at the beginning of the dump, a `FLUSH_TABLES_WITH_READ_LOCK` and `GTID_EXECUTED` are performed. These operations ensure that the GTID value is consistent with the mysqldump snapshot. 

Reviewer 2: @Partick We deliberately removed this Oracle's patch from the 5.7.41 as it requires additional (not really needed) privileges for users who do not use GTID-based replication. Instead we left our (Percona-specific) fix for the original problem that does not have this regression.
We basically reverted
https://github.com/mysql/mysql-server/commit/72f28e5ba7838beee4e5eabcf1118024b7b38b2a
and
https://github.com/mysql/mysql-server/commit/dd7bfa81ce663e784db15c4eea05681552eab47b
and left our solution based on `START TRANSACTION WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT`.
You should also refer the following two bugs submitted to Oracle
https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=109701
and
https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=109685

Reviewer 2: @oleksandr-kachan Please, confirm that this is what has been done for 5.7 as well.

Reviewer 2: It looks like Oracle admitted the problem and fixed this in 5.7.42 / 8.0.33
```
5.7.42:
With mysqldump, using --single-transaction required either the RELOAD or
FLUSH_TABLES privilege with mysqldump v5.7.41. This requirement now only
applies when gtid_mode=ON (defaults to OFF) and with --set-gtid-purged =
ON|AUTO (defaults to AUTO).

8.0.33:
With mysqldump, using --single-transaction required either the RELOAD or
FLUSH_TABLES privilege with mysqldump v8.0.32. This requirement now only
applies when gtid_mode=ON (defaults to OFF) and with --set-gtid-purged =
ON|AUTO (defaults to AUTO).
```

Author: Added

includes all the features and bug fixes available in [MySQL 5.7.41 Community Edition](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/5.7/en/news-5-7-41.html) in addition to enterprise-grade features developed by Percona.

Percona Server for MySQL is a free, fully compatible, enhanced, and open
source drop-in replacement for any MySQL database. It provides superior
performance, scalability, and instrumentation.

Percona Server for MySQL is trusted by thousands of enterprises to provide
better performance and concurrency for their most demanding workloads. It
delivers more value to MySQL server users with optimized performance,
greater performance scalability and availability, enhanced backups, and
increased visibility.

For paid [support](https://www.percona.com/services/support), [managed services](https://www.percona.com/services/managed-services) or [consulting services](https://www.percona.com/services/consulting), contact [Percona Sales](https://www.percona.com/about-percona/contact)

For [training](https://www.percona.com/training), contact [Percona Training - Start learning now](https://learn.percona.com/contact-me)

## Release highlights

> Percona has removed an Oracle patch for mysqldump that performed, at the beginning of the dump, a `FLUSH_TABLES_WITH_READ_LOCK` and `GTID_EXECUTED` because the patch required additional user privileges, even when the user does not use GTID-based replication. The following bugs based on this patch were submitted to Oracle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Percona has removed an Oracle patch for mysqldump that performed, at the beginning of the dump, a `FLUSH_TABLES_WITH_READ_LOCK` to get consistent `GTID_EXECUTED` because the patch required additional user privileges, even when the user does not use GTID-based replication. The following bugs based on this patch were submitted to Oracle:
```

Author: Added.
